Somes notes about the objective changes -
When going through each objective on its own there is a trend that we can see the 
when the objectives don't have anything to conflict with the model essentially goes to the boundaries
that have been set (Corner Policy).

So each of the optimiser models when running them have very similar if not the same results as shown 
in the KPI comparison HTML files.

From looking around this to be expected with the models having a clear boundary optimum set 

I was looking around online and a change that might influence the genes of the models not being 
so similar is to change the weighting, making use of the end_target_frac which is currently unused or 
making use of different penalites to influence the model and get more diverse results though this could
result in very little changes or obscure the objectives.

Pareto Front was dropped for solo objective as it provided nothing in return.

Graph Notes - All Objectives Mode -
When deciding the overall top optimiser do need to see what the weighting
of the objectives are as at the moment they are all weighted equally which 
may not be the best way to decide the overall top optimiser.

Model A - No Storage - Basic model that only just serves demand with no storage.
Looking at the results on the dispatch showcases the expected behaviour of 
exporting all excess energy and importing when there is a deficit.

Overall placement is last on the KPI results with the worst performance in all objectives.

Model B - With Storage - A heuristic model making use of rules to change its behaviour.

Looking at its results overall on the placement for its results 2nd last with 
a sizeable increase in performance from Model A. 
But still falling short when compared to that of the
optimiser models in the emisison and import reduction aspects but is the leader
of the solar losses objective overall with the lowest losses of all models.

This is likely the case from the optimiser models making more use of the storage which
always has a efficeny loss when charging and discharging. 

Model C - Optimiser (NSGA-II) - 
As with all of the optimiser models the chosen criteria for them was
to have the goal of optimising the dispatch by maximising the solar share and the minimisation
of carbon emissions mainly with the reduciton of grid imports.

This model does overall perform better than of the prior two models A and B in the reducton of imports
and carbon emissions but does fall short in the area for storage losses as the rule based.

Overall performance this optimiser model places 2nd overall.
in the KPI results. Which is to be expected as both of them amount of objectives this could
a gap could appear if the amount of objectives were to increase as NSGA-III is better suited for 
such a scenario.

Model D - Optimiser (PSO) -
PSO model overall performs the best out of all models in the KPI results. Joint with Model E (MOPSO)
as it is the leader in the emission reduction and import reduction objectives. But is ever slightly behind that
of the other optimiser models in the solar loss objective.

Model E - Optimiser (MOPSO) - 
This model was used to merely see if the change from single objective PSO to multi objective 
would make any difference in the results. Upon looking at the final results there was very little
if at all difference if any when compared to Model D (PSO). So they are both joint leaders in the results.

When looking at the dispatch results it is much the same behaviour as Model D with very little difference.
(Could be dropped or changed for another model if needed.)
Model F - Optimiser (NSGA-III) - 
So as mentioned prior in the NSGA - II Model NSGA-III is better suited for higher amount of objectives. 
This is shown in the results where while its is very close to that of NSGA-II it performs slighty worse. 
The difference though is ver minimal so could be due to other factors that could be looked into further.


Dispatch Graph Notes -

Model A - No Storage
Model has no storage so essentially just imports when demand isn't met and exports excess solar
when generation is higher than demand.

Model B - Rules Based With Storage 
When looking at the dispatch of model B it goes to maximum battery charge 
very early on in the year and doesn't export untill the midpoint where 
meaning alot of wastage of excess solar from not being stored
then from around may to september demand starts to not be met so it begins
to discharge and continue a normal cycle of charge and discharge. Till september where it goes back to maximum
and never discharge again for the rest of the year so can see alot of excess solar that could be exported if need be
but overall due it is low amount of charing and discharging cycles it has the lowest amount of solar losses.

Model C - Optimiser (NSGA-II) - 
When looking at Model C the first optimisation model we can see a much different approach to the dispatch in the
form that it makes use of the storage alot more frequently to store excess solar and discharge when needed.
Which is shown in the final results that we've arrived at. 

Though as stated proior comes at the detriment of solar losses due to the efficiency losses
when charging and discharging the battery.

This behaviour is the same in the all the other optimiser models D, E and F.

Model D - Optimiser (PSO) -
As stated above the behaviour of this model is very similar to that of Model C (NSGA-II) but the key differences
that one can see from PSO seems to have a much higher peak overall in its value with the PSO model
PV-> Storage about 150 MW more than that of NSGA-II which help explain its overall less imports and emissions.
Model E - Optimiser (MOPSO) -
Identical to Model D
Model F - Optimiser (NSGA-III) -
Overall the results of the model are so similar to Model C (NSGA-II) that it is hard to see any difference over than 
some minor variations in the peaks and troughs of the dispatch. But the behaviour is essentially the same.


Notes Regarding your Extra Paper Stuff -

Document storage size selection, LP vs NSGA and formula, 
and window design results on actual data. - 

For Size selection this was based of your choice so will have to discuss this.
(Was it industry standard size or is there another reason for the specifically chosen size?)

For the LP I've added a new model "Model G - Optimiser (LP)" to the model list" and have recorded the new results
just for the base case scenario to see how it performs against the other models.

The window design results - Not soo sure what you mean by this can discuss this on thursday.

Document & the expanded forecast supply and demand to hours 
to weeks. hourly to be prepared to the optimisation. -
For this section do you mean change the runtime to be based on a weekly approach
as opposed to the current daily approach? in relation to the KPIs outputs or
do you mean running the forecasting models to be weekly based? (Might take sometime to set up)
Document forecasting horizon extension, evaluation, and selected models. - 
Need clarification on this.
Document forecast vs actual dispatch results and seasonal analysis. - 
Need clarification on this.
Write interpretation of dispatch impacts and forecasting influence. - 
Extension from the above point so will also need clarification on this.
Write limitations, implications, and recommendations. - 
Done some of this already in the Current version (V3) but can expand on this further.

Notes About Sweep Arguments Aspects -
 --model c --objective-set all --cap-sweep 500,1000,1500,2000 --pop-size 100 --ngen 40 --cxpb 0.9 --mutpb 0.1
-- Ngen -> Number of generations to run the optimiser for.
-- cxpb -> Crossover probability.
-- mutpb -> Mutation probability.

--model d --objective-set all --cap-sweep 500,1000,1500,2000 --pso-swarm 60 --pso-iters 60 --pso-w 0.7 --pso-c1 1.5 --pso-c2 1.5
-- pso-swarm -> Number of particles in the swarm.
-- pso-iters -> Number of iterations to run the optimiser for.
-- pso-w -> Inertia weight to control the impact of the previous velocity of the particle.
-- pso-c1 -> Cognitive coefficient to control the impact of the particle's best known position.
-- pso-c2 -> Social coefficient to control the impact of the swarm's best known position.

The sweep part of the program goes through the model chosen still with the chosen objective set but then varies the capacity 
of the battery storage system based on the values given in the cap-sweep argument. 
Which in this case it was 500, 1000, 1500 and 2000 MWh capacities. 